DESCRIPTION:

firstnum is a terminal command which permits to obtain lists of prime number
and/or prime factor of decomposition from a series indicated as
argument in the same command. Example: firstnum 1000 1030

firstnum have a series of option that work both as filters on the visualisation
and as specific functionality. Example: firstnum -p 1 10000

first is a terminal command (semplification of firstnum) which permits to know
if is a prime number of a divisble number. It is possible obtain also a list of
prime number into a specified series. Example: first 12345 67899




INSTALLATION:

The installation of the two commands pretty simple, it's enough to follow the steps
below reported.
There are two possible procedures:

Manual procedure:
To manually install first and firstnum copy, from terminal, the relatives files
in a directory of the sistem path like /bin or /usr/bin, or only aswell in the
directory bin or .local/bin of the user directory. Finally copy also the hidden
directory .fnl in the user directory.
Open a shell of terminal, so run in sequence the follow commands:

 cd <PATH>/Firstnum-public-108b
 sudo cp first /bin/
 sudo cp firstnum /bin/
 cp -r .fnl $HOME
 
Automatic procedure:
To install firstnum and first run in sequence the follow commands: 
 
 cd <PATH>/Firstnum-public-108b
 sh ./install.sh
 
NOTE: for <PATH> that interpret the actual path = $HOME/<PATH>, or rather the path
which bring to the directory Firstnum-public-108b, otherwise it doesn't work.



USE:

To use first and firstnum commands, when installed in the path,
type only the name and refer to the help for operating modality.



EXTRA:

In the directory Firstnum-public-108b there are also the sources of firstnum and
 first in C language.
The same commands are also there with the following names:
firstnum, firstnum108b, first and first103 (executable),
firstnum108b.c, firstnum108b (copia).c, first103.c and first103 (copia).c (sources).

To accurately display them adequately prepare gedit(for GNOME) or whatever else
text editor, for example Kate (per KDE) to the view of C source.

Turn on the "visualisation of straight number", "a new paragraph automatic",
"right margin to 80 or 132 column", "don't split words on two lines,
"automatic identification of the type of the text" (highlighting)
which need to be set up on C language; furthermore, much important,
the tabulation need to be corresponding to 3 or 4 spaces,
or alternatively turn on "insert spaces instead of tabulations".
If possible turn on also the highlighting of the right margin and the current line.
See the settings of respective editor to turn on the voices if possible.

That's all.

